Welcome to this week.
You're now going to learn
about word vectors,
and specifically, you're going to see
how you can train them from scratch.
Previously, you just downloaded word
vectors and used them, but in this week,
you're going to be able to train them.
In this video, you're going to learn about
the different applications of word vectors
and then you're going to learn about the
different ways of training word vectors.
Word vectors,
also known as word embeddings,
are the cornerstone of most consumer and
enterprise uses of NLP.
If you completed course one
of the NLP specialization,
you may remember that you used
pre-generated word embeddings to find
semantic analogies between words and
to calculate similarity of words.
You could, for instance,
combine word embeddings with a classifier,
to perform sentiment analysis,
or to classify customer reviews or
comments from user feedback surveys.
More advanced use cases for word
embeddings include machine translation
systems, information extraction,
and question answering.
These are your learning objectives for
this week.
Identify the key concepts
of word representations.
You will represent words numerically so
that they can be used
with mathematical models.
I'll also go over the benefits
of word embeddings and
representing words with numbers.
Generate word embeddings.
I'll show you the general way in which a
model can learn word embeddings from data,
illustrated with some examples
of commonly used methods.
Prepare text for machine learning.
You will transform a corpus of text into a
training set for a machine learning model.
I'll give practical advice that you can
apply to real life corpora as diverse as
books and tweets.
You will implement the continuous
bag-of-words model,
which is one of the many ways in
which word embeddings can be created.
It's a simple and
efficient approach that initially
popularized the use of word embeddings.
There are other techniques like GloVe,
Word2Vec and
others that can be used to train them.
But for this week, we're going to look
at the continuous bag-of-words model.
If you aren't familiar
with neural networks,
then I strongly recommend that you go
through the first course of the deep
learning specialization
by deeplearning.ai.
If you are familiar with neural networks
but haven't used them in a while,
then don't worry,
I'll review them in this week's lecture.
So we have identified many applications
that make use of word embeddings.
We've also seen all the cool things that
you will be doing by the end of this week.
Isn't this exciting?
Let's get started in the next videos.